# Cervical-Cancer-Screening-and-detection
What we want to implement is the use of a device that does not need a speculum to take the sample cells, a device that will use data collected from repeated testing to learn all kind of HPV (Human Papillomavirus) to produce better results of where (if the person has this virus) the cancer is at, early or late stage so that better treatment can be employed. This device will be made in such a way that it will be able to collect cervical cells without spread – opening the opening of the woman’s vagina. The device will be covered with tactile sensors and biosensors to better detect were potential abnormal cells may be. Tactile sensors have been used before in medicine as they have a similar sensing power as the human hand. This will help as most cancerous cells have different temperatures to the rest. Furthermore, biosensors, new to the field of medicine are also used to better identify abnormal cells that may develop into cancerous cells. The idea is to have the device connected to a computer, as thus, it will also use machine vision, to navigate through the vaginal canal as the health personal manoeuvres it. This will also help in avoid in hurting the patient as they will now see exactly what is happening in clear vision. The question now is, with machine vision and sensors, how is the device going to collect the cells. The idea is for it to have a brush that can pop out once the cervix is reached, and since the health person will be watching in real time what is going on, after taking the sample, they can pop it back. Now we will have two personnel working on these cells, the doctor and the device (after training with machine learning algorithms, we expect the device to be able better detect potential cancerous cells). Eventually, the doctor will not have to spend time testing but could focus more on finding a solution. The device will not replace the doctor, it is a device intended to assist the doctor to be more efficient and help the patients to be treated as soon as possible. 
